# CME538-DataScience-for-Civil-and-Mineral-Engineers

Course Description

Data Science is redefining how people and organizations solve challenging problems and has become an essential skill for engineers in the 21st-century. This course bridges between APS106 (Fundamentals of Computer Programming) and CME263 (Probability Theory for Civil and Mineral Engineers) and upper-level machine learning, computer science and statistics courses. In this course, we explore key areas of Data Science including question formulation, data collection and cleaning, visualization, and applied machine learning.  All lessons are taught with code and a strong emphasis is placed on the development of a solid foundation in computer programming. This course touches on a range of topics from visualization to machine learning which we believe serves to enhance the learning experience for students by allowing them to gain an appreciation for the close interplay between these topics. 

Although Data Science has gained visibility resulting from successful applications in marketing, e-commerce, and social media, it is becoming widely utilized for Civil and Mineral engineering applications. These applications include regulation and control of electrical grids, mineral exploration, traffic engineering, infrastructure health monitoring, deep mine hazard assessment, predictive maintenance, construction management, control and maintenance of water systems, and many others. This course aims to prepare Civil and Mineral Engineering students for this new reality.

This course is targeted toward Civil & Mineral Engineering undergraduate and graduate students whose only exposure to computer programming and data science has been through core courses such as APS106 (Fundamentals of Computer Programming) and CME263 (Probability Theory for Civil and Mineral Engineers). As such, this course is truly introductory and is meant to develop a solid foundation to build on with more advanced courses offered by ECE, MIE, and CS.
